feat(radio-button): initial design guidance (#18)
vmware-clarity/clarity-guidance: 1021-radio-design-guidance.md

---
category: component design guidance
state: draft
created: 2024-10-16
updated: 2024-10-22
---

> # Radio Component

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Radio Design Guidance
```

> [Radio](https://clarity.design/documentation/radio) component is a form element that allow the user to select one of the options in the list.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A [radio](https://clarity.design/documentation/radio) control is a form element that allow the user to select one of the options in the list.
```

> A [radio](https://clarity.design/documentation/radio) control is a form element that allow the user to select one of the options in a group.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A [radio](https://clarity.design/documentation/radio) control is a form element that allows users to select one option from a group, ensuring clear choice among mutually exclusive options.```

## Guidance

> - **Must** use when only one item can be selected from a list.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Design teams **must** use radio buttons when only one item can be selected from a list.
```

> - **Must not** leave all radio buttons unselcted. Mark the first item or most preferred item as selected.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- *Design teams **must not** leave all radio buttons unselected. They should mark the first item or the most preferred item as selected by default.
```

> - **Must** use when the list includes at least two mutually exclusive options.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Design teams **must** use radio buttons when the list includes at least two mutually exclusive options.
```

> - **Must not** use when more than 6 options are available to choose from. Consider using a [select](https://clarity.design/documentation/select) component instead.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Design teams **must not** use radio buttons when more than six options are available. They should consider using a [select](https://clarity.design/documentation/select) component instead.
```

- **Must not** use for functionality like “accepting terms of service” or similar. Use a [checkbox](https://clarity.design/documentation/checkbox) instead.  

> - **Should** use appropriate [radio button states](https://clarity.design/documentation/radio#states).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Design teams **should** use appropriate [radio button states](https://clarity.design/documentation/radio#states) to provide clear feedback on user interactions and enhance the overall user experience.
```

---
category: component design guidance
state: draft
created: 2024-10-16
updated: 2024-10-21
---

# Radio Component

[Radio](https://clarity.design/documentation/radio) component is a form element that allow the user to select one of the options in the list.

## Guidance

- **Must** use when only one item can be selected from a list.

> - **Must** NOT leave all radio buttons unselcted. Mark the first item or most preferred item as selected.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Must not** leave all radio buttons unselcted. Mark the first item or most preferred item as selected.
```

- **Must** use when the list includes at least two mutually exclusive options.

> - **Must** NOT use when more than 6 options are available to choose from. Consider using a `select` component instead.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Must not** use when more than 6 options are available to choose from. Consider using a [select](https://clarity.design/documentation/select) component instead.
```

> - **Must** NOT place interactive content (buttons, links, etc) inside the label.

Reviewer: This applies to all form control labels, not just radio buttons. Perhaps this should just be in the forms page.

> - **Should** NOT use for functionality like “accepting terms of service” or similar. Use a `checkbox` instead.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Must not** use for functionality like “accepting terms of service” or similar. Use a [checkbox](https://clarity.design/documentation/checkbox) instead.
```

I think this should be a "must not". Also, added a link.

> - Use appropriate [states](https://clarity.design/documentation/radio#states) for Radio button.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Should** use appropriate [radio button states](https://clarity.design/documentation/radio#states).
```

> - Radio component is available in multiple [layouts](https://clarity.design/documentation/radio#layouts) variants.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
